## Data Summary
Our dataset is a .csv file of crime data in Charlottesville from the UVA Open Data Portal, which includes crime reports within a 5 year span, including information about the time the report was made, a description of the offense committed, the officer that reported it, and the street/block it was committed on. Weather data is retrieved from the Meteostat Python library within the scripts in the SCRIPTS folder, which retrieves global weather data from reputable sources: in our case, from NOAA. This library offers weather data aggregated at several time intervals between hours and years (we will be using days), and provides the weather station ID that the reading was recorded at, timestamp of the recording, and weather information such as average/minimum/maximum temperatures, precipitation levels, wind measurements, air pressure, and amount of sunshine.

## Provenance
The Charlottesville crime data from the UVA Open Data Portal includes offense type, street names, and reported dates. Open Data provides municipally-generated data to the public without restrictions of copyright, patent, and other control mechanisms for free. This specific dataset alongside Open Data eliminates burdens to access data created or managed by government agencies while respecting privacy and sensitivity concerns. In accordance with their open data policy, Meteostat provides access to weather and climate data for research and educational projects.

## License
The Charlottesville crime dataset follows the Open Data Portal’s public license (CC BY 4.0) allowing research and non-commercial use. The Meteostat weather dataset is provided under the MIT License, which allows academic use with appropriate attribution to Meteostat and its data sources. The Meteostat library also cites the World Meteorological Organization Resolution 40, which dictates that meteorological data should be distributed free and unrestricted.

## Ethical Statements
Since the Charlottesville crime dataset is publicly available and from the UVA Open Portal, we comply fully with the license and terms of use. No attempt will be made to deanonymize those who have committed crime and link them to their personal identities. The data we are using is only coming from official Charlottesville crime and Meteostat weather data. Only data necessary for the research question will be used for analysis, as to avoid any exposure of sensitive data.

## Data Dictionary
We will be parsing only the relevant data from each of the two datasets we’re retrieving. The following data dictionaries outline the applicable columns we will use to answer our research question.

### Crime Data
| Column | Description | Potential Values |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| DateReported | Date and time that a given crime was reported | Datetime64 value between July 2020 and July 2025 |
| Offense | Short description of the type of crime reported | String value describing the crime (currently 110 unique values), such as “Hit and Run” or “Assault Simple” |

### Weather Data
| Column | Description | Potential Values |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| time | The timestamp that the weather data was collected at | Datetime64 value (for our use case, we will be retrieving aggregated daily data, so we will care about date and not time) |
| tavg | The average air temperature in degrees Celsius | Float64 value reflecting the temperature in Charlottesville |

## Explanatory Plots
See the output folder for our exploratory plots generated by the processing script.